## 5.	Born digital material: specific notes
### 5.1.	Accession and ingest
Instructions for accessioning and ingesting born-digital material can be found on the Library wiki, at:
[http://wellcomelibrarylss.pbworks.com/w/page/83407156/Digital%20Archives]()
This page should be used as the start-point for any born-digital procedural questions.
Broadly speaking, the flow of material is that it is first virus-checked on a stand-along laptop, then loaded to a temporary holding area on a shared network drive (V: drive), turned into a SIP (Submission Information Package, comprising a bundle of data and metadata) using the SIP Creator tool, then ingested to Preservica.  Preservica captures the material, its metadata and its arrangement, and synchronises this information to CALM: CALM records will be automatically generated that mirror the hierarchy of the original file structure. **IT WILL NOT BE NECESSARY FOR ARCHIVISTS TO WORK WITHIN PRESERVICA**; all cataloguing work, as with paper material, will take place in CALM.

### 5.2.	Arrangement and rearrangement
It is assumed that in most cases, the principle of respect for original order (plus issues of sheer bulk) will mean that born-digital material does not undergo rearrangement once it is ingested.  There may, however, be occasions when it is appropriate to rearrange born-digital material – for example, when a run of annual reports switches from paper to digital within a hybrid collection, and it makes sense to position born-digital material at a point within the “tree” adjacent to the paper reports.  
As things currently stand, large-scale rearrangement that breaks up accessions of born-digital material is not possible after ingest.  Our current synchronisation process inserts new CALM records directly below the collection level description (i.e. PP/MIA/1): these will then be moved and incorporated into the "actual" catalogue (i.e. PP/MIA/A). This is permitted as long as the deliverable unit and all its children are kept together. It is not, however, possible to break up the large deliverable unit that constitutes the original ingest and move its contents to different places in the “tree”.  Using the example of a run of annual reports that shifts from paper to digital:

**5.2.1.**	If there is a floppy disk of annual reports, this will be ingested en bloc and can be moved to an appropriate point in the “tree” set up for the paper material

**5.2.2.**	If there is a floppy disk of different types of digital material including annual reports, it will not be possible after ingest to take the annual reports and put them in one place whilst other files go somewhere else.  Curation of the tree of this nature would be a matter of removing the items from their original location BEFORE ingest, and ingesting them separately.

### 5.3.	Access and sensitivity

The size of born-digital collections means that in most cases it will not be possible to open all files.  A paper collection also is usually too large for all documents to be examined, so the change with born-digital material is quantitative, an issue of degree, rather than a qualitative one. The cataloguer should use their professional judgement, drawing on a) the degree to which the collection has an internal organisation and structure, and b) what is known about its content from e.g. discussions at time of accession, to apply access statuses at the item level. If you think a particular area of the collection is likely to contain sensitive material, do some random sampling to see if this is indeed the case, and then err on the side of caution by closing the whole area.  (See below for notes on fields used.)
